src/articles/Fibonacci/index.mdx, before:

import React from 'react';

import Cover from './cover.png';

<Data
    title="The Fibonacci Sequence"
    author="JustTyping1"
    time="3 minutes"
    cover={Cover}
/>

The Fibonacci sequence is perhaps one of the most simple and yet complex
parts of mathematics. To quickly recap, it is a numerical sequence that
traditionally begins 0, 1 and every next term is the sum of the two before.
So, continuing the sequence, we get 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 and so on. While
this may seem very simple, this sequence conceals a world of fascinating
connections and patterns that show us that while mathematics is viewed as a
very abstract and theoretical field, can have many connections, many times
found in unexpected places.

Firstly, the Fibonacci sequence has been used, quite often as an
approximation of the miles to kilometre conversion, and while this is
arbitrary, it is useful. If you want to quickly convert 5 miles to
kilometres, you look at the next term in the sequence, 8. This is a decent
approximation of the converted value. However, this is only the beginning.
One may note, for example, that the ratio of a term in the sequence and the
term before i appears to get closer and closer to a specific value as you go
up in the sequence. As it turns out, mathematicians have named this number
"phi" and have designated it its own special greek letter. Unlike "pi"
(which it can sometimes be confused for, given the similar name), phi can be
expressed and is not transcendental. Phi is exactly equal to (1 + √5)/2 ≈
1.61803, but why is this number (and by extension the fibonacci sequence)
so special? One of the reasons is that we see it all throughout nature.

Let us picture a snail shell, with its mesmerizing spiral. It can be
constructed mathematically by first drawing two 1 by 1 square vertically
touching. Then constructing a 2 by two off to the right of the two squares
so that it's side length is the sum of the side lengths of the first two.
Now we repeat this, continuing in a spiral pattern. We end up seeing that
the side lengths of all the squares in order match the Fibonacci sequence.
This makes sense as the side of any new square is the sum of the sides of
the two squares before. Another observation we may make is that the
rectangle has a side length ratio of 1:Φ (phi). This also seems to make
sense. Now we draw a spiral through each of the squares such that it goes
through the common vertices and with this, we have constructed a snail shell
pattern using the Fibonacci sequence, and that's not all! We can even scale
this up from a snail shell to arms of entire spiral galaxies, like the milky
way and observe the same phenomenon!

import Figure1 from './figure1.png';

<Figure caption="Examples of the Fibonacci spiral in nature.">
    <img src={Figure1} alt="Photos of Fibonacci spiral in nature" />
</Figure>

So, to conclude, the Fibonacci sequence is one of the many ideas in
mathematics that can endlessly be discussed and spout debate as well as
discovery, but, more than all else, it proves that mathematics is a field
built into the very core of the universe, nature and even human behaviour.
So, the next time you walk past a snail or a flower or even perhaps ponder
the shape of the galaxy, be sure to remmber phi and the humble series that
starts 0, 1, 1.

Commit message:

GitHub style MD, a new data format, KaTeX format

src/articles/Fibonacci/index.mdx, after:

import React from 'react';

import Cover from './cover.png';

export const data = {
    title: 'The Fibonacci Sequence',
    author: 'JustTyping1',
    time: '3 minutes',
    cover: Cover,
};

The Fibonacci sequence is perhaps one of the most simple and yet complex
parts of mathematics. To quickly recap, it is a numerical sequence that
traditionally begins 0, 1 and every next term is the sum of the two before.
So, continuing the sequence, we get 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 and so on. While
this may seem very simple, this sequence conceals a world of fascinating
connections and patterns that show us that while mathematics is viewed as a
very abstract and theoretical field, can have many connections, many times
found in unexpected places.

Firstly, the Fibonacci sequence has been used, quite often as an
approximation of the miles to kilometre conversion, and while this is
arbitrary, it is useful. If you want to quickly convert 5 miles to
kilometres, you look at the next term in the sequence, 8. This is a decent
approximation of the converted value. However, this is only the beginning.
One may note, for example, that the ratio of a term in the sequence and the
term before i appears to get closer and closer to a specific value as you go
up in the sequence. As it turns out, mathematicians have named this number
"phi" and have designated it its own special greek letter. Unlike "pi"
(which it can sometimes be confused for, given the similar name), phi can be
expressed and is not transcendental.

<div style={{ marginInline: "auto", width: "max-content" }}>
    $\phi=\frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2}≈1.61803$
</div>

ϕ being phi, but why is this number (and by extension the fibonacci sequence)
so special? One of the reasons is that we see it all throughout nature.

Let us picture a snail shell, with its mesmerizing spiral. It can be
constructed mathematically by first drawing two 1 by 1 square vertically
touching. Then constructing a 2 by two off to the right of the two squares
so that it's side length is the sum of the side lengths of the first two.
Now we repeat this, continuing in a spiral pattern. We end up seeing that
the side lengths of all the squares in order match the Fibonacci sequence.
This makes sense as the side of any new square is the sum of the sides of
the two squares before. Another observation we may make is that the
rectangle has a side length ratio of $1\ratio{\phi}$. This also seems to make
sense. Now we draw a spiral through each of the squares such that it goes
through the common vertices and with this, we have constructed a snail shell
pattern using the Fibonacci sequence, and that's not all! We can even scale
this up from a snail shell to arms of entire spiral galaxies, like the milky
way and observe the same phenomenon!

import Figure1 from './figure1.png';

<Figure caption="Examples of the Fibonacci spiral in nature.">
    <img src={Figure1} alt="Photos of Fibonacci spiral in nature" />
</Figure>

So, to conclude, the Fibonacci sequence is one of the many ideas in
mathematics that can endlessly be discussed and spout debate as well as
discovery, but, more than all else, it proves that mathematics is a field
built into the very core of the universe, nature and even human behaviour.
So, the next time you walk past a snail or a flower or even perhaps ponder
the shape of the galaxy, be sure to remmber phi and the humble series that
starts 0, 1, 1.
